
                            - 1 -

A seven-color alignment system v. 1.00

As  well  as  in  magic  system, there are seven "colors" in
alignment system. Alignment system is tied to  magic  system
where colors resemble different forces and spheres of magic.
Using magic of certain color (or  sphere)  affects  caster's
alignment  so  that alignment starts to go towards the color
of the spells used. Casting one spell of  blue  magic  won't
immediately  change caster's alignment to blue, but continu-
ous use of certain color of magic affects a lot.  In  align-
ment system, colors resemble certain features of character's
nature and all colors are on good - evil "axis" as  well  as
on  law  - chaos axis. So, some colors are more evil or good
than others as well as they are more "lawful" or  "chaotic".

Colors  symbolize  the  moral,  ethics and/or the faith of a
character.  Some charactersitics are shown below as an exam-
ple.

Black  (B):  Black is kind of a color that symbolizes a dark
mind. Thoughts of death, solitude, vengeful and the abuse of
the  weak  are common thoughts. Usually black-aligned people
live only for themselves and are very selfish.Black is  evil
as  an alignment and usually those who worship the dark gods
are black-aligned. An anti-paladin seeking the death and de-
struction of goodness is typical black aligned example.

Red  (R):  The  red-aligned  beings are possibly aggressive,
chaotic, violent, warlike and unpredictable. The may also be
spontaneous  and  impulsive. They are potential warriors and
may be patriotic or racist. Red-aligned people are  not  too
trustworthy  because  their  possible chaotic nature. People
who have red alignment are usually warriors  that  seek  new
challenges,  soldiers  that  fight  or  money  and wealth or
priests of war, battles or destruction.

Yellow (Y): Yellow is the alignment of chaos (more than  red
actually)  and  people who seek for change are most probably
yellow-aligned. People who tend to try new things, who  want
to  have some kind of variation and alteration in their life
are considered to have yellow aligned. Yellow alignment does
not lean towards good or neutral in that axis, but neutrali-
ty. It is, however, very chaotic and does not have any  kind
of  order.  That  still doesn't mean unjustice or other such
thing. A wandering halfling adventurer who seeks new  things
with  great interest is an example of yellow-aligned charac-
ter.

White (W): People who have white alignment are  good,  fair,
just,  righteous  and  kind-hearted. They are the people who
give the poor people money or offer food, they are those who
help  handicaps or who stand for justice and the law. White-
aligned people may also be religious, willing to help  other
people and loyal. They are not just good but also they stand

                            - 2 -

for order and therefore fight against chaos and disorder.  A
paladin  protecting the city and helping the poor and handi-
cap people would definitely be a white-aligned  as  well  as
the healer of the city.

Green  (G):  Green  is the alignment of the people who value
nature, animals, plants and life in general  a  lot.  Green-
aligned  are  also  those who are pacifist or those who pre-
serve human (and other species as well) rights. They are not
bound  by  the law or other rules, except maybe the rules or
the nature. They are tolerant and  not  conservative.  Green
alignment  is  probably the most philosophical of all align-
ments. Druids and shamans (and some rangers  too)  are  good
examples of green "folk".

Blue  (L):  Blue  is the alignment that is probably most de-
ceiving. It is the color of  schmers,  careerists  or  other
self-centerd  people,  but it is not necessarily evil, if at
all. Neither blue-aligned people are usually good, but  very
neutral.  Blue-aligned people are closer to order than chaos
usually since they make careful plans very  often.  Blue  is
not  the  color  impulsive color, but rather a thinker. Blue
color also symbolizes strenght and  especially  strong  mind
and willpower. An example of blue-aligned character could be
a psionicist or a politician.

Brown (O): Brown is the  color  that  represents  constancy,
preservation,  equality  and tranquillity. The brown-aligned
people are firm and steady, never getting nervous or  losing
temper all of a sudden.  They don't usually make quick deci-
sions but think twice before doing something important.  The
are  not  warlike  or aggressive but are ready to fight fire
with fire. They are usually also very loyal to what they be-
lieve.  They  also  preserve  old  "good"  values and things
rather than bulid a new one. A  conservative  dwarven  miner
who believes in old family values would be a fair example.

Things that affect or change alingment.

The magic affects (or even changes) the alignment of a char-
acter a lot. The color of spells you cast affects  your  own
alignment  very much. For example, if you are a healer cast-
ing white healing spells, your alignment  is  going  towards
(if  already not) white and therefore goodness. Other things
that affect one's alignment are the things one kills (if  it
even  kills  a creature) and all kinds of other deeds or du-
ties one does. Quests and possible jobs  and  wars  are  one
thing  that  will  affect  the alignment as well as the used
spells (and maybe some skills too). Also, some  missions  or
tasks  of  a religion may affect one's alignment. As earlier
mentioned, alignment is based on two axes, the good  -  evil
-axis  and  the law - chaos -axis. Both of these axes affect
character's (everyday) life. It depends on place,  situation
and other characters how much. (I will later add a small co-

                            - 3 -

ordinates table that shows the "positions" of different col-
ors on axes.

//05.09.1997 [comments and suggestions are most welcome]
<<< Sinister >>> (text formated by namhas)
EOF

