A seven-color magic system v.1.10

There are seven colors (or spheres) of magic which each have their own spelltypes and powers. Some of the spells are just one-color spells but some of them are combinations of different colors. These colors are also linked to alignment and they affect character's alignment very much, ie. if you cast "good" spells (white for example) then your alignment is going towards good and if you cast "evil" spells (black for example),  then your alignment is going towards evil. 
Besides this, each color has it's "opposite colors" which resemble the opposite powers. For example, black's opposite colors are white and green and red's opposite colors are white and blue. Each spell needs that type (color) of mana that their color is (blue spells need blue mana and so on) to be cast.

These seven colors/spheres of magic are:

Black (B):
 Black magic appears in a form of witchcraft, dark necromancy and harm spells.
 It's evil magic, that is of death, disease, bane, darkness and other such things.
 Black is the most evil form of all magic.
 White and green are the opposite forces of black magic.

Red (R):
 Red magic appears in pyromancy and in magic that is used to cause destruction.
 The powers of red are of fire at most, but also heat, destruction, havoc and chaos.
 Usually red magic is seen rather evil than good, but it's mainly chaotic rather than anything else.
 Blue and white magic are the opposite forces of red magic.

Yellow (Y):
 The power of yellow magic is probably the weirdest in the world of Majik. Yellow magic has harnessed the powers of chaos and the elemental powers of air. It also has the powers of transformation and change.
 Yellow magic is the magic of chaos, air and transformation.
 Yellow magic is seen very chaotic but it is not good or evil magic in any way.
 Brown and blue are the opposite forces of yellow magic.

White(W):
 The brightest of all magic is white, that appears in the forms of abjuration, protection and  healing.
 White magic stands for justice, healing, protection and general goodness.
 White magic is generally seen as the magic of pure goodness and is not chaotic in any way.
 The opposite forces of white magic are black and red.

Green(G):
 Green magic is usually seen as druidism, shamanism or at the use of other natural healers.
 It's fields of magic are: nature, life, curing, peace and love.
 Green magic is little chaotic and neutral but it is more good than evil.
 The opposite forces of green magic are black and brown.

Blue(L):
 Blue magic is an odd combination of aeromancy, enchantment spells and the magic known as "counter magic". Counter magic includes dispel and negation spells as well as "counterspells".
 The forces of blue magic are all forms of water (ice, steam, water), enchanting spells and the art of counter magic which includes dispel and negation spells.
 Blue magic is selfish but not evil nor good. It is not chaotic but pretty much of order and logic.
 Blue magic's opposite forces are red and white.

Brown(O):
 The magic of earth and constancy is usually known as brown magic. It is usually seen in terramancy, the elemental magic of earth.
 Brown magic represents the powers of earth, constancy, unchangeability and stability.
 Brown magic is very neutral. It is not relevant with good or evil, a bit more order than chaos.
 Yellow and white are the opposite forces of brown magic.

[This is just a first version of my color-magic system txt. I will add features later.]
// 03.09.1997 [comments, suggestions etc. very welcome]
<<< Sinister >>>
EOF
