Death in Majik (v. 1.00)

Avoiding the death

There are couple of spells to avoid the death (at least there SHOULD be ;)
but there are also points called 'fate points' (or just "fp"'s). These
points (may) prevent characters from dying where death would normally
"collect" these mortals. These fp's are like divine intervention when used.
They would save the character's life in battle so that the char could be
"thrown" out from the room where the battle was fought using random exits.
From 1 to 3 fp's would be used randomly.

1 fp used would just throw the char out in near death condition, leaving
only 20 hps (or so) to the character.
2 fps used would leave the char in hurt condition, (still thrown out from
the room the battle was fought in) so that some hps would be left (of course
this depends on the situation how the char got hurt. If he already had few
hps left, this wouldn't give any extras, but if char got the death blow from
a single critical hit of from a spell, then this would absorb most of the
damage leaving the char alive).
3 fps used would actually give the char some healing instead of taking
damage(!) and this would really be a blessing of the gods rather than "just"
'divine intervention'.

Characters would get these fps through donations, from quests and from gods
(if they get a special favor). Also other ideas (how to get fps) are welcome. Monster _can_not_ have fp's.

Dying

When players die, they leave their corpses on ground as well as the monsters
leave theirs. These corpses can be robbed in the same way that monsters'
corpses can. Soul leaves the body when a character dies. The soul travels to
the astral plane. It is there until it can travel back to it's body, either
by magic of mortals or by divine power of gods.

Other disadvantage of dying is that one loses all "exp" on skill and spell
percents. This means that if a char has like 500 exp on skill A (which
requires 700 exp to next %) and 900 exp on spell B (which requires 1000 exp
to next %), he (or she) will lose all those unused exp when he or she dies.

Recovery from death

There are three different spells (or spell types, maybe) which can be used
to force the soul to return to it's body.

Raise dead - A necromantic spell which is the easiest way to revive the
dead. It summons the soul from the astral plane and binds it to the body but
doesn't heal the body at all, so the body must be healed with some other
spell.

Resurrection - A spell of the "good clerics" (or whatever they are called in
the future). This forces the soul to return to the body at the same time as
this spell heals the body. Body is not healed to full condition usually
(maybe with critical success) but heals at least some of the wounds.

Rebirth - This spell of the druids is rather a ritual than just a spell.
It requires a ritual and many magical components (i leave the details to the
druid guildmaster). Stats will be halved after successful rebirth-spell but
character will get those stats back later.

Praying

Characters can also pray instead of waiting for spells to get back to life.
This is, although, risky for mortals if they have not been loyal to their gods.
There is going to be two types of pray.

Common pray - this is normal pray what a mortal can use. The effects are not
as nice as with those spells of mortals but at least one gets back to life.
The "cost" of this pray is that one loses some stats (at least temporarily). Then the soul is returned to the body. This
type of pray could also lower some skill and spell %'s.

Favored pray - this is a type of pray where god favors the prayer.
The prayer's soul moves back to body and gets some (temporary) boost on
stats, but still loses all unspent exp. The god who answers to this pray
decides what kind of boost this prayer will get. This pray requires an unidle
wiz to be done.

Feel free to think new ideas to this system (about the advantages and
disadvantages of the spells etc.).

All comments, suggestions etc. welcome.
<<< Sinister 13.10.1997
EOF