Guidelines for writing descriptions for rooms, items or whatever:

  * All descriptions should be *unique*, don't use same descriptions
    unless it is neccessary ie. you have a maze, but remember: mazes
    are mostly boring. Room short descriptions can be same of course..

  * Short description should be really only short description and
    it cannot contain period "." at the end of it. Start short description
    with a capital letter. Good example of a short description would
    be:

      Forest path

    Bad example of short description would be then:

      At The Forest Path.

    SO, you can only capitalize the *first* letter of the short description
    unless it is a *name* or needs capitalizing by english language
    rules. DO NOT use ".", "!", "?" or anything similar in short descriptions,
    because it is included automagically in several places.

    Short description shouldn't never be over 50 characters.

    FOR items same rules is due EXCEPT you don't capitalize first letter,
    good example of item short description is:
  
      a long shovel

    Bad example of item short description is:

      The Long Shovel.

    Because of my player item creation designs you can't do this: 

      Dazzt's long shovel

    If you do so then my code can modify it to look like this:

      Aluna's Dazzt's long shovel

    FOR monster short descriptions the rules are still quite same,
    but as we can have a name for the monster then it should 
    be in format:

      <capitalized name>, the <title> is <doing something here>

    Example:

      Aberax, the mad astrologer is staring in the sky

    If we don't have name then we can do:

      A mad astrologer is zooming the sky using a telescope

    In monster short descriptions you can and need to capitalize
    the first letter even if it is an "A" or "AN".

    For monster's AND item's set_name() please use always more than one
    id's, good example for aberax's would be:

    set_name (({ "aberax", "astrologer", "mad astrologer" }));
 
    If we don't have name or we have an item - then:

    set_name (({ "an astrologer", "astrologer", "mad astrologer" }));
    set_name (({ "an iron key", "key" }));

    Include that "a astrologer" to first with an "a" or "an" because
    otherwise we would see: "Astrologer leaves north." it is rather
    bad english isn't if? So if we have "a astrologer" as first id
    then we would see: "An astrologer leaves north."

    With items it's important to have the name with the article included
    because many commands use that name when processing messages.
    "You get key." would look stupid but "You get an iron key." wouldn't. 

    Someone could ask why couldn't we just use item's short_desc for 
    such porposes. In many cases that would work just fine, but if
    the short_desc is unusally long it's better to have a shorter
    version you can use in messages.

       Compare these:

         "You look at a large bulletin board (16 messages)."
         "You look at a large bulletin board."

        or these:
 
	 "You drink from a fountain is gurgling here."
	 "You drink from a fountain."

  * Long descriptions for items, monsters and rooms uses same rules,
    mostly. For instance this is a good long description:

      The ground here is full of colourful flowers and the rich scent of
      the forest fills the air. In the center of the square stands a tall
      wooden totem of summer reaching for the sun above. The totem is
      painted with the vivid colours of summer and it is carved to resemble
      an elf sitting on a shoulder of the great bear. The bear is quite an
      imposing sight but the impression on the face of the totem elf is so
      relaxed that you feel quite certain there's no danger in the bear.
      The forest surrounds the square and leaf-covered paths lead to the
      east, west and south. A temple is waiting for you to enter it in the
      north.

   Still that wasn't the best.. and it was quite long, an ordinary
   size for long descriptions is about 3-4 lines - more lines you
   have the better description it is but if it have same parts as
   in other descriptions then it is more bad than small description
   which is fully unique. Description over ~20 lines is *too* long,
   description less than two lines is *too* short.

   Bad example of description is:

     You Are Standing At The Long Description.  This Is A Stupid Description
     Please Do Not Use CAPS this MUCH.Also You should Remember That
     After Period You should Use Only One Space. Two Spaces Are Far Too
     Much And Without Space At All It Is Ugly.There Is Rather Warm.

   In above descriptions is many bugs. You can only use capital letters
   at starting of a sentence and for names etc. that english language
   needs. Also after period use only one space. And do not never upper
   case whole word like CAPS or MUCH - unless it is really neccessary.
   Also you can't add to description anything about weather because the
   weather lines is added automagically later, so it would look like
   stupid if we have:

     There Is Rather Warm. A medium clouds move in calm east breeze.

   You should describe the place as it is and do not make it dependent of
   the direction where the player came from, unless there is only one
   direction.
