Guild system v. 1.0

In Majik there is going to be many different guilds. Background doesn't restrict players what guilds they can join and the "level" of the player doesn't determine how many guild "ranks" he or she can have.

Guild ranks

Each guild has few ranks usually depending how many skills and spells the guild has. These skills and spells are divided amongst these ranks so that the hardest of those skills/spells are to be learnt on higher levels and the most basic skills and spells are learnt on the very first levels.

Advancing guild ranks

Guild ranks can be advanced in the guild with the guild master. Requirements for different guild ranks vary from guild to guild and from level to level. Some levels just require that one has learnt high enough percententuality to qualify the new level to advance. Guild ranks also cost an amount of money which depends on the rank of the guild. The higher rank the more it costs.
Some ranks may have a special quest to be done before advancing to next rank.
Examples of guild rank requirements:

A low rank alchemist guild advancement requirement could be like this:
  make a small piece of gold  
  (of course this would require the alchemist guild to have a such spell or skill
   so they could actually create a piece of gold.)
A low rank druid guild advancement could be:
  gather a small bundle of mandrake root.
  (a druid could use his or hers "herb lore" skill to find a suitable place
   for a mandrake to grow and then cut and collect it.)

A high rank guild quest could be a some sort of mission or task the guild master wants the player to do. This can change a lot as the wizzes may change the quest, but it is advisable that the quest would be very much the same.

An example of this kind of high rank guild quest for fighter guild could be a killing a horrible monster of some sort. For example, a killing of a dragon.
An example of high rank priest (of some sort of a church) guild quest could be a mission of church. Ie. this could be a foundation of  a new shrine or a temple.

 // 02.09.1997 (comments, suggestions etc. are very welcome)
<<< Sinister >>>
EOF
