
RReeqquuiirreemmeennttss ffoorr HHoommeellaannddss                                 11

11..  IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn

     According   to  "/doc/misc/goverment.txt"  we  need  to
decide some things that is used and required in  every  area
that will be homeland of some race or alternative city where
to live.

22..  RReeqquuiirreemmeennttss

 +o Laws; is pkilling allowed, is stealing allowed, what hap-
   pens when ya steal something? All laws should be viewable
   by some book or plaque in somewhere the city,  preferably
   some common place where every newbie usually walks.

 +o Military  forces;  certain  cities  can be in the war, so
   that is primary reason why we need military  forces.  For
   example  if  race  of enemy enters to the city all guards
   would attack and yell the alarm.

 +o King; all cities needs active king or  like  who  decides
   all the things that affects the city. Deciding whether to
   go war or not and deciding  the  tax  rates  etc.  Cities
   should have only limited amount of NPC military forces as
   well as PC ones and it would cost something to feed  them
   and such. King should protect his castle in the city very
   well otherwise if the enemies  can  takeover  the  castle
   then the war is lost and king changed.

 +o Citizens; all players that live in the city would be cit-
   izens and they need to regiter somewhere to be real citi-
   zens,  all  who it to home land in the character creation
   would be automatically citizens.

 +o City gates; all major cities should have city  gates  and
   the city walls to protect the city from the enemies. City
   gates should be closed in the night and open in the days,
   or  vice  versa.  City guards can take some money if non-
   citizen enters to the city.

 +o Shops, banks; the city is not city if it lacks  at  least
   general shop and bank. Board or two is also required.

33..  HHooww ttoo ddoo iitt

     This is only proposal, we don't have ready base for all
this. I suggest we create homeland daemon which has  several
mappings  about  each  city, the list of citizens, amount of
city guards and their location,  the  king,  tax  rate,  the
money the city haves (collected by the tax) and such things.
Actually if we do homelands to be good with  kings  and  all
then  we  don't need special player cities at all. It is too
hard to implement anyways. The one  who  does  the  homeland
should  be god of all of it and continue to developing it to

NNoovveemmbbeerr 2233,, 11999977                                MMaajjiikk MMUURRPPEE

RReeqquuiirreemmeennttss ffoorr HHoommeellaannddss                                 22

be really great area. All other type of areas  are  not  yet
needed  and their quality can be much worst. For enough good
homeland we will give 20 levels.

     By wars, city  development,  goverment,  laws  and  law
breakers  we get some point to this game instead of exp-mak-
ing monsters in some area as is in many other muds. Area  is
not  area if it does not have some meaning, good meaning for
the area is not "there is monsters", or "it is good area for
newbies" acceptable meanings for the area are:

 +o homeland or other large city (you can be citizen)
 +o guild area
 +o area where players can get some equipment
 +o some quest and players can get something as reward
 +o place where players can talk and rent rooms (inns)

     This  proposal  is  open  for suggestions and comments.
Please read "/doc/misc/goverment.txt" also.

NNoovveemmbbeerr 2233,, 11999977                                MMaajjiikk MMUURRPPEE

