Monster levels

Levels for monsters are set with mapping:

set_levels(([ "fighter" : 20, "caster" : 10  ]));

In this case the monster has 20 levels of fighter skills
and 10 levels of caster skills. If you don't want your
monster to have any levels, don't use set_levels option.

Levels

So, there are two kinds of levels for monsters. Fighter
levels set all kinds of combat skills, like weapons,
maneuvers and other combat skills like dodge etc.
Other class, caster, sets casting-related skills and
possibly some spells too. Levels also affect certain
stats, for example, fighter levels give bonus to some
physical stats and so on.
Maximum for each class is 100 and but in practise no
monster should have more than 80 levels in each class.
100 is for those unique killer, half-immortal monsters
that are legends etc. So, basically even guildmasters
shouldn't have their levels beyond 80. And when you
use these levels, try to make your monster realistic,
so that there are no elven chefs who have 80 levels
of fighter class or 70 levels of caster class.

Below there is a list of examples, so you get the idea
of the level range.

Fighter levels

Level     Example

  0       No experience of fighting, no skills from this class.
1 - 20    Little experience of fighting, some basic skills
          at low %'s.
21 - 30   Some basic skills and some experience of fighting.
          City patrol or common guardsmen.
31 - 40   Moderate skills and experienced in battle. 
          Experienced guards or common soldiers.
41 - 50   Good knowledge of different weapon skills and many
          maneuvers. Experienced warriors, soldiers and knights.
51 - 60   Very skilled knights and elite guards, very much
          combat experience.
61 - 70   Veteran knights, paladins and such. Next to 
          legendary.
71 - 80   Legendary skills and experience. Basically maximum
          level for humans, elves etc.
81 - 90   Unearthly skills and experience, some divine beings
          or such.
91 - 100  God-like skills and experience in fighting. This is
          the utter maximum for level. One shouldn't use these
          levels before asking an arch.

Caster levels

Level     Example

  0       No experience of casting or spells. No skills or spells.
1 - 20    Minor experience of spellcasting. Some basic skills and
          couple of spells maybe. Novice spellcaster.
21 - 30   Some experience of spellcasting and little more than
          just basic skills and spells. Amateur spellcaster or
          lower class priest.
31 - 40   Average knowledge of spells and arcane skills.
          Experienced with magic. Normal mage or priest.
41 - 50   Good knowledge of arcane lore and wide range of spells.
          More experienced than average spellcaster. Professional
          mage or medium level priest.
51 - 60   Excellent knowledge of basic skills and spells.
          Considerably experienced with magic. Can easily control
          many forms of magic. Elite magic-user or high level
          priest.
61 - 70   Veteran spellcaster. Very much experienced with magic
          and major knowledge of spells and arcane skills. High
          priest or Archmage of some sort.
71 - 80   Legendary spellcaster, knows most spells and has very
          good variety of arcane skills. Only few humanoids can
          achieve this level.
81 - 90   Divine or diabolic level of knowledge in the fields of
          magic. Beyond normal human capability and very wide
          scale of spells and skills. Ancient dragons, demons and
          angels could belong to this category.
91 - 100  God-like level of knowledge and experience. This is
          the utter maximum for level. One shouldn't use these
          levels before asking an arch.

_/_
 / Sinister 28.12.1997

EOF
