
                            - 1 -

Religions.txt v.1.00

In  the world of Majik there are many religions that worship
certain gods. Each religion has  some  kind  of  holy  place
where  the  gods  can be worshipped. Prayers are ought to be
much more effective when done in these holy places.  Depend-
ing  on  the  power (the level) of the god the size of these
holy places vary. The three greater gods each have a  cathe-
dral that is the most effective of all holy places where the
prayers can be read. The gods have a temple  at  first,  but
their  worshippers  can build a cathedral for them (like the
greater gods have).  Lesser gods have only  a  small  shrine
at  first  but their worshippers can advance it to a temple.
Demigods don't have any holy place at all when  they  become
demigods  but  they  can build a statue somewhere that their
religion can be "found". The entities of divine origin  (ie.
all  sorts  of  gods) interact with mortals via their divine
power that is measured in "divine points" (dp).  The  amount
of these points depend on many things and the most important
are: the level of god, the amount  of  worshippers  and  the
type  and  number  of  holy places in their religion. Points
coming from these holy places depend on the size of the holy
place,  ie. cathedral is worth more than a temple or shrine.
The divine points system is not included in this  file  yet,
but as soon as the system for it is ready.

The spheres and portfolios of gods.

Each  god  (including  demigods) have their own "portfolio",
ie. the sphere of control. This portfolio is the  sphere  of
things what god represents.  The greater the god, the bigger
the sphere of control and so having more control of  things.
The  portfolio can be chosen by the god himself (or herself)
but a portfolio has to be "unreserved" which  means  that  a
sphere  cannot be already controlled by another god. Another
restriction when choosing the sphere is that  the  power  of
sphere  is  dependent  on  the "size" of the god. This means
that no demigods or even lesser gods can control the  great-
est of spheres. Some examples:

Greater gods have the greatest of powers under their control
like, death, life and balance. Read help_gods.txt for  their
portfolios.

Gods  have  very  much  control  over  the world besides the
greater gods and such portfolios the gods  could  have  are:
wealth,  war,  love, diseases, beasts, nature and other such
big spheres.

Lesser gods have control over smaller  things  than  greater
gods  or  gods.  Spheres  or portfolios of lesser gods could
have: health, happiness and joy, artifacts,  beauty  and  so
on.

                            - 2 -

Demigods are the smallest of all gods and thus they have the
only small  spheres  of  control.  Some  examples:  weapons,
forests,  serpents and snakes, giants. Demigods are also the
racial gods.

Note, that each god may have more than one sphere (for exam-
ple:  a  god  could  have a portfolio that contains battles,
combat, war, courage and bravery), but those different port-
folios have to be relevant to each other in some way.

When choosing a portfolio, contact the greater gods and dis-
cuss with them those spheres.

All comments, suggestions and questions are welcome.
<<< Sinister >>> // 08.09.1997 (text formated by namhas)
EOF

